---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/0-house-rules/1-general-house-rules/"}
---


# Downtime
## Skill Training (credit to Greybard)
Characters wishing to hone their skills without spending XP can do so using downtime.
In order to advance a Skill to the next rank, the character must successfully complete at least **`next skill rank + 1`** training sessions. These successful sessions need not be consecutive.
### Training Sessions
A training session is a period of 8 hours in which a skill trainer attempts to teach a trainee character a specific skill, chosen at the start of the training session. Completing a training session successfully requires that the trainee pass a skill test in the chosen skill, starting at +0 difficulty in the first session. If the test is failed, the next training session test gains a +10 bonus. If the test is successful, the next training session gains a -10 penalty and the Training Session is considered successfully completed.  
Up to two Training Sessions can be completed in any given day, provided that the trainer is willing and that both the trainer and the player character have the time available.  
Each training session will generally cost **`(next skill rank + 1) x 40`** Drakes. However, the cost may be negotiated and could be affected by any number of factors, like the player's faction, their fame or notoriety, or by the player's relationship with the trainer.
## Crafting with Looted or Mined Materials
When crafting an item with looted or mined materials, refer to the table below for the exact amounts needed.

| Item             | Core    | Fastenings |
| ---------------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Partial Chest    | 3 Units | 3          |
| Full Chest       | 5 Units | 4          |
| Partial Limb     | 1 Unit  | 1          |
| Full Limb        | 2 Units | 2          |
| Shield           | 3 Units | 2          |
| Buckler          | 1 Unit  | 1          |
| Tower Shield     | 4 Units | 3          |
| Targe            | 2 Units | 1          |
| 1H Weapons       | 1 Unit  | 1          |
| 1.5H Weapons     | 2 Units | 2          |
| 2H Weapons       | 3 Units | 3          |
| Small Misc.      | 1 Unit  | 1          |
| Medium Misc.     | 2 Units | 2          |
| Large Misc.      | 4 Units | 3          |
| 10, Arrows/Bolts | 1 Unit  | 1          |
| Complex Weapon   | 2 Units | 4          |
| Bows             | 1 Units | 3          |
For further detail, refer to the [[0 - House Rules/Homebrew/Smithing Expanded\|Smithing Expanded]] rules detailed in this wiki.
## XP Chart
Players will be given 100 XP per session, plus additions from the chart below.

| Activity                                     | Reward | S/P |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------ | --- |
| Achieved a Campaign or Major Party Objective | 30xp   | P1  |
| Successfully Resolved a Social Encounter     | 20xp   | S   |
| Dealt with at least one lock or trap         | 15xp   | S   |
| Engaged in Roleplay, with party and NPCs     | 20xp   | S2  |
| Had a particularly good idea                 | 15xp   | S   |
| Crafted at least one item                    | 10xp   | S   |
| Successfully used an untrained skill         | 10xp   | S   |
| Traveled to a new place                      | 10xp   | P   |
| Was a team player, working together          | 10xp   | P   |
| Defeated a Minor Threat                      | 10xp   | P   |
| Defeated a Major Threat                      | 20xp   | P   |
| Defeated a Deadly Threat                     | 30xp   | P   |
| Showing up                                   | 40xp   | P   |
- P: the entire party gains the XP
- S: only the player involved gains the XP
- 1: can be achieved multiple times in a session
- 2: rewarded to all involved
# Player Absences
As stated in the original Session 0 document: SHOW MUST GO OOOON.... unless at least half the player are absent.
If only one player is absent, the absentee has a choice. Either the character continues with the adventure, being "piloted" in part by the GM; or the character does not participate in the session, and instead is off doing their own thing. What they are doing is determined at a later date, in a solo, 1-on-1 session of their own.
# What Remains of ~~Edith Finch~~ Session 0
## Player and Game Behavior, & GM Expectations
### Unannounced Dice Rolls
I will allow you to roll for just about anything as long as you can justify it. However, do tell me before you roll, that way I can assign additional difficulty modifiers if necessary.
### Inter-Player Conflict
Actual conflict is strictly prohibited. However, banter and/or arguments are allowed, with some caveats:
- When throwing insults or banter, you are to reference the CHARACTER and not the PLAYER. Any insults/remarks that make reference to a quality of a player THAT IS NOT SHARED by their character is strictly prohibited.
- Sparring is allowed, but actually trying to kill each other is not.
### PC Secrets & META Knowledge
Keeping secrets from each other, especially in the early stages of your partnership, is definitely allowed, even expected. 
As for META knowledge--things the player knows but the character would not: if the your character did not hear or otherwise get ahold of the information discussed by anther player, then that information is unknown to you until either the character tells you, or until you are able to get ahold of that information yourself.
### Player Discomfort
The day-to-day lives of mercenaries in Tamriel tend to be rather grim, especially so during a time where the Empire of Cyrodiil doesn't exist and there are murder hobo daedra freely entering Mundus. My goal with this world is to show it how it truly is, disturbing and all. If at any point you become uncomfortable with something that happened, please let me know.
### Game Balance & Fairness
The campaign is balanced to who your characters are: mercenaries and adventurers.
HOWEVER: even the smartest of adventurers can stumble upon something they cannot handle. AKA play stupid games, win stupid prizes. If you take on a bounty that puts you up against a Dragon Priest or a Demi-Prince, you will feel the consequences of those actions.
### Rules Debates
With this being a very comprehensive and new system, I will often make rulings on the spot. After the session, these rulings will be looked up and will be either confirmed or changed for future sessions.
## Game Style, Character Lifestyle
### GM Style
"Very cinematic. You take time to describe where we are and what the place feels like. The ambience of it. Make us feel like we're there, immersing us into it." - paraphrased from Blu
I am a HEAVY roleplayer. Try your best to match my swag.
### Type of Game
Importantly, this world does not revolve around you, it goes on doing whatever it wants no matter if you're in it or not. You're just cogs in the giant machine that is Tamriel (both figuratively and literally).
I will try to portray and feature as many aspects of this wonderful setting as possible. Setting this during the mid Second Era means the world is full of wonder, whimsy, and high fantasy, but also mystery, conspiracy, and heavy political themes.
### Campaign Length
Yes.
# Food
Consuming food gives you various bonuses, based on the type of food.
You may choose the bonus upon consumption, lasting either until the next long rest, or until your next consumed food.

**Stews & Soups:**
- Decreases Exposure gained from cold weather by 1
- +5 to Endurance based tests that day
**Meat & Fish**
- +2 HP until the next long rest
- +1 natural healing rate
- +5 to Strength based tests that day
**Baked goods (bread, pastries, pies, etc.)**
- +5 to Personality based tests that day
- +1 SP recovered on the next long rest
**Fruits & Vegetables**
- +5 to Perception based tests that day
**Alcohol**
- +5 to Personality based tests, but -5 to Intelligence based tests
- +5 to Personality based tests, but -5 to Agility based tests